# Contentful Bootstrap

A small CLI tool for getting started with Contentful

## Contentful
[Contentful](http://www.contentful.com) is a content management platform for web applications,
mobile apps and connected devices. It allows you to create, edit & manage content in the cloud
and publish it anywhere via powerful API. Contentful offers tools for managing editorial
teams and enabling cooperation between organizations.

## What does `contentful_bootstrap` do?
`contentful_bootstrap` let's you set up a new Contentful environment with a single command.

## How to Use

### Installation

```bash
$ gem install contentful_bootstrap
```

### Usage

You can create spaces by doing

```bash
$ contentful_bootstrap create_space <space_name> [--template template_name] [--json-template template_path] [--config CONFIG_PATH]
```


You can also generate new Delivery API Tokens by doing:

```bash
$ contentful_bootstrap generate_token <space_id> [--name token_name] [--config CONFIG_PATH]
```

### Built-in templates

Just getting started with Contentful? We have included the following built-in templates:

```
blog
gallery
catalogue
```

You can use these with the `--template` option to create some demo data and start developing
against our APIs right away. Once you've gotten comfortable, you can
[create your own templates](#json-templates) for quickly replicating testing & development spaces.

### Using from within other applications

Include `contentful_bootstrap` to your project's `Gemfile`

```ruby
gem "contentful_bootstrap"
```

Require `contentful_bootstrap`

```ruby
require 'contentful/bootstrap'
```

To Create a new Space

```ruby
Contentful::Bootstrap::Commands.new.create_space("space_name")
```

Additionally, you can send an options hash with the following keys:

```ruby
options = {
  template: "blog", # Will use one of the predefined templates and create Content Types, Assets and Entries
  json_template: "/path/to/template.json", # Will use the JSON file specified as a Template
  trigger_oauth: true # if true will trigger OAuth process
}
Contentful::Bootstrap::Commands.new.create_space("space_name", options)
```

To Create a new Delivery API Token

```ruby
Contentful::Bootstrap::Commands.new.generate_token("space_id")
```

Additionally, you can send an options hash with the following keys:

```ruby
options = {
  name: "Some Nice Token Name", # Will Create the Delivery API Token with the specified name
  trigger_oauth: true # if true will trigger OAuth process
}
Contentful::Bootstrap::Commands.new.create_space("space_name", options)
```

Optionally, `Commands#new` will take a parameter for specifying a configuration path

### Configuration

Contentful Bootstrap will read by default from `~/.contentfulrc`, but you can provide your own
file by using the `--config CONFIG_PATH` parameter

If you don't have `~/.contentfulrc` created, you will be prompted if you want to create it

#### Configuration Format

The configuration file will be in `ini` format and looks like the following

```ini
[global]
CONTENTFUL_MANAGEMENT_ACCESS_TOKEN = a_management_access_token

[space_name]
SPACE_ID = some_space_id ; Space configurations are not required by this tool, but can be generated by it
CONTENTFUL_DELIVERY_ACCESS_TOKEN = a_delivery_acces_token      ; Delivery Access Token is not required for this tool, but can be generated by it
```

### JSON Templates

Using the `--json-template` option, you can create spaces with your own predefined content.
This can be useful for creating testing & development spaces or just starting new projects from
a common baseline. You can find a complete example [here](./examples/templates/catalogue.json)

## Contributing

Feel free to improve this tool by submitting a Pull Request. For more information,
please check [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md)
